Title: New Beginnings

Subtitle: Being a non-Abelian Andy

Tags: Learning

Datetime: 2014-12-31 16:55:14+00:00

Live: True

Content:

In January, I'll be starting a new job. Leaving my old one was not a
decision that I took lightly, but one that I knew was the right choice
for my career. In particular, new company is a development agency,
meaning that much more of the workforce is dedicated to dev and I am
expecting plenty of colleagues who are far better and more experienced
at programming than I am. For me, this is key. While there is a
comfort in knowing your codebase - its idiosyncrasies and warts - and
also knowing the company and being confident that you are performing
your job role well, I felt a problem with diminishing returns for my
growth as a programmer.

I'd be lying if I said that the only reason I was excited about new
job was for grown-up, professional reasons. It's also a fifteen-minute
walk as opposed to an hour-and-a-bit commute via train. (And I'll
leave it as an exercise for the reader to look up how much a monthly
pass from York to Leeds costs...) This begs the question as to what
I'm going to do with my gain of something approaching three hours each
day.

Physical fitness is an obvious possible use of this time, but the lack
of a place to keep a bike is pain. Perhaps I will actually become one
of those people that goes jogging. I'm also really hoping to get into
photography more. A new phone (which has *finally* been ordered!) with
a better camera will help me with snaps, but cracking out the DSLR
more ofter would also be a good plan. Conquering my fear of recipes
would also be fun, and hopefully, eventually, delicious.

So thank you, 2014, its been an eventful year. Bring on the next one,
I say.
