Title: Pythonic Elegance

Subtitle: How cdecimal saved the day

Tags: Coding Concepts, Django, Python

Datetime: 2015-04-07 18:30:03+00:00

Live: True

Content:

Python's decimal module handles fixed-point arithmetic calculations,
and before Python 3.3, was implemented in pure Python. The fact that
there is a reference implementation written in Python is
excellent. Its portable, it means the source is readable for Python
people, and it simplifies the tracebacks.

But it's also slow. And this was a problem. I project I was working on
recently involved a lot of calculations with Decimal objects, and
profiling showed that a huge chunk of time was going on the `__mul__`
method of Decimal, so I wanted to use `cdecimal.Decimal` instead of
`decimal.Decimal`. But lots of the values came from the database, and
where stored in Django in DecimalFields, which return standard
Decimals, and the two types of Decimals are not interoperable. How
could I make it so that the DecimalFields gave the cdecimal versions,
not the standard ones?

Turns out that because they are drop-in replacements, you can update
`sys.modules`:

```python
import sys
import cdecimal

sys.modules['decimal'] = cdecimal
```

So I just needed to put this segment at the top of `manage.py`(for the
devserver and shell commands) and `wsgi.py` (for the WSGI server). And
then my view function that was taking more than 30 seconds -- and
dying horribly against Heroku's hard 30 second limit -- was now taking
less than five seconds.

There were two things that really impressed me about this. Firstly,
that cdecimal was so much faster. As of CPython 3.3, it is now the
default implementation (and, I read, has had even more performance
improvements). Secondly, how well Python accommodates module-level
drop in replacements. Guido's time machine strikes again.
