Title: Trees

Subtitle: Some JavaScript writing

Tags: Learning, JavaScript

Datetime: 2017-04-18 21:11:04+01:00

Live: True

Content:

I recently read a book all about trees. This made me realise that I
could identify a concerningly small number of trees, especially given
how generally outdoor-savvy I would like to consider myself. I used a
couple of online tree identifiers but was frustrated by those that
don't let you enter the features that are obvious, but rather follow
the flow-chart question-answer pattern.

So I wrote my own. I probably could have found a better one if I'd
kept hunting (or paid for an app) but this seemed like something I
would learn something from building. Also, it doesn't require any
faffy deployment stuff, I can just deploy some HTML and JavaScript to
GitHub pages and the job's done.

I should possibly have used this as a chance to make something with a
fancy JavaScript framework, but I didn't. But it did mean that I did
some more fiddly JS stuff. It's not like the tricky bit was
manipulating the HTML. The tricky bit was fiddling about with the
data. I ended up writing quite a few classes which I *think* I'm OK
with. Python tends to push me gently away from writing classes unless
I think they are *definitely* better than the alternative, purely
because it is so easy to make code readable without them. But in
languages that I find to be much less readable, classes give a nice
way of making code more readable thanks to encapsulation. In addition,
I just used jQuery and Bootstrap (because doing DOM stuff with
JavaScript without jQuery is yucky, and making any web page look OK
without Bootstrap is faffy).

The finished article is at [hosted
here](http://www.plumdog.co.uk/tree_identifier/) and hopefully it will
evolve over time to get more extensive and easier to use.
